You look smart, Mr. Blackadder. Going somewhere nice?
Don't you like it then?
No, I don't! A load of stupid actors strutting around,
shouting, with their chests thrust out so far, you'd think their
nipples were attached to a pair of charging elephants! And the worst
thing about it is having to go with Prince *Mini-Brain*!
What, doesn't he like it, either?
No, no, he loves it. The problem is that he doesn't realise it's *made
up*. Last year, when Brutus was about to kill Julius Caesar, the
Prince yelled out, "Look behind you, Mr. Caesar!".
I don't see a point in the theatre. All that sex and violence. I get
enough of that at home. Except for the sex, of course.
While we're out, Baldrick, I want you to give this palace a good
*clean*. It's so dirty, it'll be unacceptable to a dung-beetle that
had lost interest in its career and really let itself go.
Come on, Blackadder, or we'll miss the first act!
Coming, sir, as fast as I can... Stick the kettle on, Baldrick.
Now Sir, give I this advice to thee: Never never trust thine enemy.
Thy life is forfeit, sir, and at an end, like our poor play.
We hope it  pleased you, friends.
Certainly not, you murdering rotter! Guards, arrest that man!
Your Highness, it's only a play.
Oh, well, that's all very well, but that about the poor fellow who's
*dead*? Saying it's only a play will not feed and clothe the little
ones he leaves behind!  Call the militia!
But sir, he's not dead. See, he stands, awaiting your applause.
Oh, I say, that's very clever. He really isn't dead.  Oh Bravo! Bravo!
Blast, the Prince likes it!
Oh shit, we'll close tonight.
Right, everybody out! Smash the Spinning Jenny! Burn the
rolling Rosalind! Destroy the going-up-and-down-a-bit-and-then-moving-
along Gertrude! And death to the stupid Prince who grows fat on the
profits!
I say, how exciting! This play's getting better and better! Bravo! Bravo!
It's not a play anymore, sir. Put the bomb
down and make your way quietly to the exit.
Blackadder, you old thing, your problem is you can't tell when
something's real and when it's not!
I must say, Blackadder, that was a close shave! Why on earth would an
anarchist possibly want to kill *you*?
I think it might've been *you* he was after, sir.
Oh hogwash! What on earth makes you say that?
Well, my suspicions were first aroused by his
use of the words, Death to the stupid Prince
It was a bit rude, wasn't it?
These are volatile times, your Highness. The American Revolution lost
your father the Colonies, the French Revolution murdered brave King
Louis and there are tremendous rumblings in Prussia, although that
might have something to do with the sausages. The whole world cries
out, Peace, Freedom, and a few less fat bastards eating all the pie.
Well, yes, quite, something must be done! Any ideas?
Yes sir. Next week is your royal father's birthday celebrations. I
suggest that I write a brilliant speech for you to recite to show the
oppressed masses how unusually sensitive you are.
Well, tell me about these oppressed masses, what are
they so worked up about?
They're worked up, sir, because they're so poor, they're forced to
have children simply to provide a cheap alternative to turkey at
Christmas. Disease and depravation stalk our land like.. two giant..
stalking things. And the working man is poised to overthrow us.
Oh my God, and here he is!
Don't be silly, sir. That's Baldrick, my dogsbody.
What's silly about that? He looks like an oppressed mass to me. Get
him out of here at once
Shoo, Baldrick, carry on with your cleaning elsewhere. And by the end
of tonight, I want that dining table so clean I can eat my dinner off
it.
Cripes, Blackadder, I'm dicing with death here. The sooner I can show
how unusually sensitive I am, the better. Oh, I just had
another brilliant thought.
Another one, Your Highness?
Yes, another one, actually! You remember that one I, I had about, uh,
wearing underwear on the outside to save on laundry bills? Well, what
I'm thinking to myself is, "Hello, why don't we ask those two actor
chappies we saw tonight to teach me how to recite your speech?"
Brilliant, eh?
No, Your Highness, feeble.
What?
It's a feeble thought. I would advise
against it
ll, tish-and-pish to your advice, Blackadder! Get them here at once!
Damn it, I'd fed up with you treating me as if I'm sort of like some
kind of a thickie! It's not me that's thick, it's you and you know
why? Because I'm a bloody Prince and you're only a *butler*. And now
go and get those actors here this minute, Mr. Thicky-Black-Thicky-
Adder-Thicky.
Mrs. Miggins, I'm looking for a couple of actors
Well, you've come to the right place, Mr. B. There's more
Shakespearian dialogue in here than there are buns! (laughs) All my
lovely actors pop in on their way to rehearsals for a little cup of
coffee and a big dollop of inspiration.
You mean they actually rehearse? I thought they just got drunk, stuck
on a silly hat and trusted to luck.
Ohhh no. There's ever so much hard work that goes into the wonderful
magic that is theatre today. Haa-haa... still I don't expect you'd
know much about that, being only a little butler.
They do say, Mrs. M, that verbal insults hurt more than physical
pain.
They are, of course, wrong, as
you'll soon discover when I stick this toasting fork in your head
Ladies and gentlemen, will you please welcome Mr. David
Keanrick.
Oh hurrah
And the fabulous Mr. Enoch Mossop
Gentlemen, gentlemen
Settle down, settle down, settle down
I'm sorry, no autographs
The usual, Mrs. M.
coming up, my lovely.
Ahh, if I can just
squeeze through this admiring rabble
Gentlemen, I've come with a proposition
How dare you, sir. You think, just because we're actors,
we sleep with     everyone
I think, being actors, you're lucky to sleep with *anyone*. I come
here on behalf of my employer, to ask for some elocution lessons.
Haa-ha, I fear, that is quite impossible. We are in the middle of
rehearsing for our new play. We cannot possibly betray our beloved
audience by taking time off.
Oh no, mustn't upset the punters. Bums on seats, laddie, bums on seats.
It is a piece we penned ourselves, called The Bloody Murder of the
Foul Prince Romero and His Enormous-Bosomed Wife
A philosophical work then
Indeed yes, sir. The violence of the murder and the vastness of the
bosom are entirely justified artistically.
Right, I'll tell the Prince that you can't make it.
Prince
Sorry, yes. Didn't I mention that? It's the Prince Regent. Sorry you
can't make it. So
No, no, no, no please, no. Please wait, sir.
Off, off! I think we can find some time, do you not,
Mr. Keanrick?
Definitely, Mr. Mossop
No, no, you've got your beloved audience to think about.
Sod the proles! We'll come
Yes, worthless bastards to a man.
It's nice to see artistic integrity thriving so strongly in the
theatre. Well, this afternoon at four then, at the Palace.
Well, what do you think?
Are you ill or something?
No, I'm simply trying to look more like an actor.
Well, I'm sure you don't need the false moustache.
no
Egads, it's that oppressed mass again
No sir, that is Baldrick spring cleaning
Oh yes, so it isOh yes, so it is
finish the job later, Baldrick
which sir. The cleaning or the being strangled
Either suits me